The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Trinity Archive, Vol. I, No. 3, January
1888, by Trinity College

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Trinity Archive, Vol. I, No. 3, January 1888

Author: Trinity College

Release Date: August 28, 2020 [EBook #63065]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRINITY ARCHIVE, JANUARY 1888 ***




Produced by hekula03, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)









                   VOL. I.   JANUARY, 1888.   NO. 3.

                                  THE
                            TRINITY ARCHIVE.

                 _PUBLISHED BY THE LITERARY SOCIETIES._



        MONTHLY.      TRINITY COLLEGE, N.C.      PRICE, 15 CTS.




                               CONTENTS.

                                  ---


                FROM MILTON’S HYMN ON THE            43
                  NATIVITY

                NOTES: The Southern Festival;        43
                  Christmas at College;
                  Overdose of Holiday

                THE BULLETIN BOARD                44-45

                BURKE AND WEBSTER                 45-46

                ORIENTAL AND OCCIDENTAL           46-47
                  CHARACTER

                TRANSLATIONS                      47-48

                CORRESPONDENCE: Letter from          49
                “Alumnus,”

                  Letter from “A Trinity Boy”     49-50

                  “Holidays”—R. R.                   50

                EDITORIALS: Narrow Gauge;         51-52
                  Cigarette-Picture Nuisance;
                  The Gymnasium a Necessity;
                  The Peace Commission; Dr.
                  Burkhead

                REVIEWS: American Statesmen;      53-54
                  Our Country; Cook’s Sievers’
                  O. E. Grammar

                 Meiklejohn’s English Language       54
                EXCHANGES                            55
                LOCALS                            56-57
                ALUMNI                            58-59
                AMONG THE COLLEGES                   59


                           MANAGERS’ NOTICES.

                                  ---

Correspondents will please send all matter intended for publication to
Prof. J. L. Armstrong, Trinity College, N. C.

                         TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.

One dollar, per scholastic year (nine issues), if paid in advance; if
not paid in advance, one dollar and twenty cents.

To anyone who will send us a Club of Five cash yearly subscribers, we
will give a year’s subscription, free.

Remittances should be made by postal note, postal order, or registered
letter, and made payable to “Business Managers of the TRINITY ARCHIVE.”

                         TERMS OF ADVERTISING.

             1 column, per   $3.00; per scholastic  $20.00
               issue,                 year,

             ½ column, per    1.75; per scholastic   12.00
               issue,                 year,

             ⅓ column, per    1.25; per scholastic    9.00
               issue,                 year,

             1 inch, per       .75; per scholastic    5.00
               issue,                 year,

           All business communications should be forwarded to

                           NICHOLSON & JONES,
                          _Business Managers_,
                         TRINITY COLLEGE, N.C.

 _Entered as second-class matter in Post Office at Trinity College, N.C._


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             F. FISHBLATE,

                                  THE

                            LEADING CLOTHIER

                           OF NORTH CAROLINA.

                                -------

                    WE KEEP ALL THE LATEST STYLES IN

                            CLOTHING, HATS,

                                 —AND—

                           Furnishing Goods.


Our line of Fine Dress Suits and Overcoats is the largest and finest
ever seen. In our Hat and Furnishing Goods Department you can find
anything you could ask for. All we ask is a call to convince you that
our stock is the largest, finest and cheapest you have ever seen.

          Respectfully,

                                                           F. FISHBLATE,
                                                        GREENSBORO, N.C.

C. M. VANSTORY, MANAGER.


P. S. Suits made to order from samples a specialty. Orders by mail will
receive prompt attention.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                            =A FREE TICKET=

                                   TO

                          Farrior & Crabtree’s

                          Boot and Shoe Store,

                   South Elm St.,    GREENSBORO, N.C.

                            SOLE AGENTS FOR

                     Zeigler Bros., Jas. Means’ $3,

                        =And Wm. Dorsch & Son’s=

                              FINE GOODS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            C. B. HAYWORTH,

                       _The People’s Liveryman_,

                          HIGH POINT,     N.C.

             Good Stock and conveyances. Prices reasonable.
                Patronage of Trinity Students solicited.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          MOFFITT & BRADSHAW,

                      _DRUGGISTS AND PHARMACISTS_,

              Next Door above Bank,     _High Point, N.C._

                               DEALERS IN

                       PURE DRUGS AND MEDICINES,

              Toilet and Fancy Articles, Perfumeries, &c.

  We cordially invite students and friends of Trinity College to call
            and see us when in need of anything in our line.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         =FRIENDS OF TRINITY,=

                             SUBSCRIBE FOR

                         _THE TRINITY ARCHIVE_.

                            $1.00 PER YEAR.

               _Business Friends Send us Advertisements._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes.

[Illustration]

Cigarette smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price
charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes, will find this brand superior
to all others.

               The Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes

are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost
gold leaf grown in Virginia. This is the old and original brand of
Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875.
Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every
package.

                                          ALLEN & GINTER, MANUFACTURERS,
                                                     RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               GREENSBORO

                            Female College,

                            GREENSBORO, N.C.

The Sixty-Sixth Session of this well-equipped and prosperous School will
begin on the 11th of January, 1888. Faculty (consisting of three
Gentleman and eleven Ladies) able, accomplished and faithful.
Instruction thorough in all departments. Superior advantages offered in
the departments of


              Music, Art, Elocution and Modern Languages.


Location healthful and beautiful; fare good. Premises large, with ample
walks for out-door recreation. Buildings large, convenient, comfortable,
and furnished with all the appliances of A FIRST-CLASS FEMALE COLLEGE.

Special attention paid to physical health, comfort, and developement,
and moral and spiritual culture.

For catalogue apply to

                                                 T. M. JONES, PRESIDENT.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Group Photographs.

I would announce to the students of Trinity College that with a view to
doing school work I have specially fitted myself for making

                             LARGE GROUPS,

such as Classes, Fraternities, Literary Societies, &c. Will be glad to
serve with whatever they need in Photography, in that or any other line
of work. I also make

                  =Portrait Frames and Mats to Order.=

          Respectfully,

               =S. L. ALDERMAN=,

               GREENSBORO, N.C.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  THE
                            TRINITY ARCHIVE.

        Published under Supervision of the Professor of English.

                      TRINITY COLLEGE, JAN., 1888.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

          It was the winter wilde
          While the Heaven-born childe
          All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies;
          Nature in aw to him
          Had doff’t her gawdy trim,
          With her great Master so to sympathize;
          It was no season then for her
          To wanton with the sun her lusty paramour.

          Onely with speeches fair
          She woo’s the gentle Air
          To hide her guilty front with innocent snow,
          And on her naked shame,
          Pallute with sinfull blame,
          The saintly veil of maiden white to throw:
          Confounded, that her Maker’s eyes
          Should look so near upon her foul deformities.

          But he, her fears to cease,
          Sent down the meek-eyed Peace;
          She, crown’d with olive green, came softly sliding
          Down through the turning sphear,
          His ready harbinger,
          With turtle wing the amorous clouds dividing,
          And, waving wide her mirtle wand,
          She strikes a universall peace through sea and land.

          No war, or battails sound,
          Was heard the world around;
          The idle spear and shield were high up hung;
          The hooked chariot stood
          Unstain’d with hostile blood;
          The trumpet spake not to the armed throng;
          And kings sate still with awfull eye,
          As if they sure knew their sovran Lord was by.
                                                    —_Milton._


------------------------------------------------------------------------

A merry Christmas and a happy New Year! So the phrase goes and many a
time has it just been uttered, who knows whether with meaning or
unmeaning lips? Christmas, part and parcel of America’s glorious
inheritance from Old England, is the sovereign festival in the South.
The North may keep its gaudy Fourth of July, the birth of a nation; but,
as for us, we will observe the day commemorating the birth of the King
of the Universe, a day hoary with centuries of associations.

                  *       *       *       *       *

No one knows the dreariness of Christmas at College but the unfortunate
wight condemned to suffer it. The lonesome buildings and quiet streets
would bore even a well-regulated ghost, while thoughts of home with
trains of recollections paralyze all gayety.

                  *       *       *       *       *

By an oversight the holidays are long drawn out. While several of the
exchanges utter touching appeals for more time, Trinity is suffering
from too much vacation. Rumor has it that next year will find both terms
and holiday readjusted.


                         _THE BULLETIN BOARD._


The new year opens with some sound financial regulations, the carrying
out of which will help considerably to improve the condition of the
College treasury. Hereafter, tuition fees will be collected at the end
of every month. Only sons of ministers will receive free tuition, and
time and credit will be allowed only to such as are found to be actually
incapable of paying their bills regularly. Students not otherwise
excused, who fail to pay monthly bills due the College, will not be
entitled to any further instruction.

The first monthly payment will be due Saturday, Feb. 11th, 1888.

Books and stationery will be sold for cash only.

A discount of 5 per cent. will be made on bills paid a full term in
advance.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Superintendent Finger will lecture on “The Public School Problem” on the
night of the 18th of January, in the College chapel. Admission free.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Entrance examinations to the College classes will be held in May at
Winston, in June at Morehead City, Raleigh, and Trinity College. The
Oxford examination will be held at a date to be announced later. The
date of the other examinations has not yet been definitely fixed.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The President’s class in Social and Political Science with the Seniors
(elective) engages in informal discussion followed by systematic inquiry
in official documents and specific treatises. A prize of $25 in books
will be awarded for the best original thesis upon any of the assigned
topics.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The Juniors begin Hallam’s Constitutional History of England as a text,
with Green’s Shorter History or Bright’s School History as collateral
reading (required.) The term’s work will end with an oration and a prize
of $25 in cash is offered for the best one.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Encouraging reports are coming in from those who went home to secure
help for the new building. There is no doubt of its _speedy_ erection,
if the Alumni respond to the proposition of “Alumnus.” The students are
determined that this building shall go up. They are ready to make
sacrifices, and are making them, to accomplish their purposes.
Contributions should be sent to Prof. J. L. Armstrong, who will
acknowledge them in the Raleigh _Christian Advocate_ and in THE ARCHIVE.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Several of the larger classes in the preparatory department will be
divided on the basis of scholarship.


                                -------

                           BURKE AND WEBSTER.

                                -------

Eloquence does not always display itself in the same form. In reading
critically the speeches of Burke and Webster, we find quite a contrast
in their styles, yet each ranks amongst the foremost orators of his
nation. Each moved thousands by the power of his words, and each
possessed a style peculiarly his own.

The first thing noticeable in Burke’s style is its remarkable clearness.
He presents his thoughts in such a plain, simple manner that they are
easily comprehended, although he handles the deepest subjects with which
statesmanship deals. He leaves nothing obscure. We are never at a loss
to know what words his relative pronouns relate to, or his conjunctions
connect. Few authors could have expressed with such precision and
perspicuity as Burke the thought contained in the following sentence:
“This commercial motive never was believed by any man, either in
America, which this letter is meant to soothe, or in England, which it
meant to deceive.”

In regard to clearness, Webster’s style resembles that of Burke. The
great American statesman seemed to possess the happy faculty of adapting
himself to his audience. If he addressed the Senate of the United
States, he was dignified and stately; if he spoke to an assembly of
peasants, he made himself perfectly intelligible.

Burke frequently uses pointed satire and bitter sarcasm in his speeches.
He says: “By such management, by the irresistible operations of feeble
councils, so paltry a sum as three-pence in the eyes of a financier, so
insignificant an article as tea in the eyes of a philosopher, have
shaken the pillars of a commercial empire that circled the whole globe.”
Again: “I conceal the ridiculous figure of parliament hurling its
thunders at the gigantic rebellion in America.” In this kind of writing
Burke is undoubtedly Webster’s superior.

Burke uses connectives with more skill, perhaps, than any other author
in the English language. This is an art of which he was master. There is
not space to give quotations illustrating this, but any one who studies
his works cannot fail to observe it.

Webster, although he was not so skilful in the use of connectives as
Burke, used them well, as the following extract from his speech in
Faneuil Hall will show: “Do they find, and do they admit, and do they
feel, that money is scarce and dear?——And how in my judgment, further,
so long as this sub-treasury lasts, so long as the tariff of 1846
continues, this state of accumulation by the rich, of distress of the
industrious, and of the aggravated poverty of the poor, will go on from
degree to degree, to an end which I shall not attempt to
calculate.”—Webster is especially fond of beginning his sentences with
‘_and_.’ Burke and Webster do not use figures of speech to excess, and
they use them very advantageously. Burke, in making comparisons, employs
the Antithesis effectively. Thus: “Compare the two. This I offer to give
is plain and simple, the other full of perplexed and intricate mazes.
This is mild, that is harsh. This is found by experience effectual for
its purpose, the other is a new project. This is universal, the other
calculated for certain colonies only. This is immediate in its
conciliatory operations, the other remote, contingent, full of hazard.”
Burke at times uses the Climax also. The chief difference between Burke
and Webster, as regards the use of figures, is that the former generally
employs the strongest Metaphors, while the latter uses Similes more
frequently. Note this as a sample of Webster’s style: “We shall see
Carolina looming up like one of the Southern Constellations.” Burke, in
his speech on Conciliation with America, argues by means of strong
historical illustrations. Webster, on the other hand, often reasons by
means of interrogations, and then by appealing strongly to the feelings
of his audience. It is said that a _dash_ may be eloquent. This is well
illustrated in Webster’s speech in Faneuil Hall.

On the whole, we may say that Mr. Webster was a strong, forcible speaker
and writer. His style is smooth and flowing. His arguments are powerful
and convincing. The great peculiarity of Burke’s style is that every
sentence “_grows_ in the very act of unfolding it.”

                                                                   H. S.


                   ORIENTAL AND OCCIDENTAL CHARACTER.

Whether the Roman idea, that climate affects character be true or not,
the Orientals exhibit a character very unlike that of the Occidentals.
With the one, impulse is the ruling power, and all others are
subordinate to it; with the other, reason interposes to check the
uprising passions, and to guard against the extremes of thought or deed.
No Western writer would ever have thought of devising the inhuman course
pursued by Schahriar, king of Persia, to maintain the honor of his
harem, and perhaps no maiden of this hemisphere would have subjected
herself to such imminent danger as did the beautiful and accomplished
Scheherazade to deliver her sex from the cruel revenge of a
blood-thirsty prince. Both were acting from impulse rather than from
reason, and in this at least they conformed to the general character of
the Orientals. Capable of the most passionate love yet extremely
revengeful, the Oriental is the kindest friend yet the bitterest enemy,
the most extravagant in grief yet the most relentless in those things
which produce it in others. Such a medley of contradictions and seeming
paradoxes are interwoven in Eastern character, making it one of the
greatest extremes.

Again, the Orientals are more mythical than the Occidentals. They have
chimerical ideas of life. Their minds are shadowy and fanciful in their
tendency. There is the home of the genii, the ghouls, and the houri.
Their literature is burdened with mythical legends, which show that
their minds, the foundation of all character, drift toward the fanciful
and unreal. In the literary lore of the West, we find no such fabulous
stories as that of Aladdin and his “wonderful lamp,” or of a Samandal,
reigning over the empire of the ocean. Where else but in the literature
of the Orientals could we hope to find the origin of such a story as the
history of Beder presents? The most exciting incidents of fiction
contained in Western authors appear tame in comparison.

The Western man, on the contrary, looks upon life as a reality. He
employs no imaginary genie to work miracles for him, but depends upon
the strength of his muscle and the ingenuity of his brains for his
support. Reason and intuition are the lights which he follows, and,
guided by them, he grapples with life as with a real entity—a something
that can be realized.

                                                                      M.


                 NIGHT ON THE PLAINS OF THE NEW WORLD.

                                  ---

                  [From the French of Chateaubriand.]

One evening I was wandering in the forests at some distance from the
Falls of Niagara. Soon I saw the day fade out around me, and I
experienced, in all its solitude, the beautiful spectacle of a night on
the plains of the New World. An hour after the setting of the sun, the
moon showed herself above the trees. In the opposite horizon, a perfumed
breeze, which conducted her from the east, seemed to preceed her as a
fresh breath among the forests. Little by little the queen of night
majestically mounted the heavens, now following peaceably her azure
course, now reposing on a group of clouds which resembled the tops of
high mountains crowned with snow. These clouds, furling and unfurling
their sails, rolled around in transparent zones of white satin,
dispersed themselves in light, foamy flakes, or formed themselves into
gigantic banks of dazzling aspect, so agreeable to the eye that one
seemed to feel their softness and elasticity.

The scene upon the earth was not less charming. The blue and velvety
light of the moon descended at intervals among the trees, and cast
islands of light into the blackness of darkness. The river, which flowed
at my feet, now lost itself in the shadow of the woods, now re-appeared
all brilliant with the constellations of night which it reflected on its
bosom. Upon the vast prairie on the opposite side of the river, the
light of the moon slept immovably on the turf. Some birch-trees,
dispersed here and there in the savannah, agitated by the breeze, formed
isles of floating shadows upon an immovable sea of light. Near, all was
silence and repose, except the falling of some leaves, the brusque
passage of a sudden wind, or the rare and interrupted hooting of an owl;
but at a distance was heard, at intervals, the solemn roaring of the
cataract of Niagara, which, in the calm of the night, prolonged itself
from plain to plain, and expired in traversing the solitary forests.

The grandeur, the wondrous melancholy of the picture, could not be
expressed in human language; the most beautiful night in Europe cannot
give an idea. In vain, in our cultivated countries, the imagination
seeks to extend itself; it meets everywhere the habitation of man; but
in those desert countries the soul delights to sink into an ocean of
forests, to soar over the gulf of cataracts, and, as it were, to find
itself only in the presence of God.

                                                                   B. T.


                             --------------


                                CHORUS.

                                  ---

          From Translation of Aristophanes’ Thesmophoriazusæ.

                                  ---

                           BY W. L. COLLINS.

                                  ---

 They’re always abusing the Women as a terrible plague to men:
 They say we’re the root of all evil, and repeat it again and again;
 Of war and quarrels and bloodshed; all mischief, be it what it may;
 And, pray then, why do you marry us, if we’re all the plagues you say?
 And why do you take such care of us, and keep us safe at home;
 And are never easy a moment, if ever we chance to roam?
 When you ought to be thanking heaven that your Plague is out of the
    way,
 You all keep fussing and fretting—“where is my Plague to-day?”
 If a Plague peeps out of the window, up go the eyes of the men;
 If she hides, then they all keep staring until she looks out again.


                  *       *       *       *       *

                                And for ways and means,
            Trust us, there’s nothing cleverer than a woman.
            And as for diplomacy, they’ll be hard indeed
            To cheat—they know too many tricks themselves.
                                      _Ecclesiazusæ._


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           _Correspondence._

_To the Editors of the Archive_:

All of your readers ought to feel interested in the erection of the
proposed new building which you mentioned in the December number of the
ARCHIVE. No one will question the necessity of such a building. The only
trouble now arises from a lack of funds. This seems strange when we look
over the list of Alumni, who could furnish the money with little, if
any, inconvenience to themselves. There are one hundred Trinity
graduates in North Carolina to-day who could give fifty dollars without
having to borrow the money. We are indebted to our _Alma Mater_ for a
great measure of our success, and I think we have at this peculiar time
a rare opportunity of making a _substantial_ demonstration of our
gratitude. I offer this plan to your readers: Let one hundred Alumni
send in their names and pledge themselves to the amount of fifty
dollars, to be paid as soon as the hundredth man’s name is received. I
am ready to give my name.

          Yours very truly,

               ALUMNUS.


                  *       *       *       *       *

_To the Editors of the Archive_:

Soon after Conference I was conversing with a minister in high standing
in our State, and during the conversation he spoke these words: “Every
preacher in North Carolina who heard President Crowell’s Report, thinks
that Trinity has got the biggest man in the State.” This did me
good—much good. Still, I should not be _altogether_ satisfied to know
that you had but _one_ man in Trinity. I have heard just as many good
things about the Faculty and their untiring efforts. The boys, too, have
done their part this session. I have had the good fortune to be at the
College once or twice since the new administration began. I can safely
say (and I don’t mean to disparage the former order of things) that a
new life exists around old Trinity. I met many of my old friends; they
seemed glad to see me, but did not have time to talk much with me. _They
were busy._ Such administration as that needs no comment. I am glad to
see that the two societies have consolidated the Libraries, and that
they are determined to put up a new building. Every Alumnus who doesn’t
send some money to help you all out in this matter ought to be ashamed
of himself. It would be worth fifty dollars to every old Trinity boy to
see that fine building every Commencement. If all the Alumni would club
together and come to the rescue, it would be as easily built as an air
castle. I am not making much money, but I am willing to give ten per
cent. of what I make until I see the project completed, if I am
encouraged by all the brethren. Some time soon I will tell you the
impressions made upon me by my second visit to Trinity. For the present,
enough has been said.

                                                          A TRINITY BOY.


                             --------------

                              =HOLIDAYS.=

                                  ---

                          ON ARRIVING AT HOME.

The old homestead looms into view. How sweet the dear old salutations
sound! The hackneyed sound of the college bell has been transformed into
the lovely echoes of a sister’s voice. The grim countenances of college
professors are, in our minds, readily replaced by the piercing glances
and approving smiles of lovely maidens. The dark pages of textbooks give
way to the cheery bonfires of Christmas Eve. Our boyhood days flash into
renewed existence, and we seem to live over again the scenes of our
childhood. We are wafted back on the wings of imagination to the time
when, long before we had heard of college, we used to hang our stockings
by the chimney and await with impatience the coming of Santa Claus. O
that we could all live and die without learning too much of this kind
old man! This “ignorance is bliss.” We are again in the family circle;
the benevolent face of the father is before us; the tender words of a
loving mother sound again in our ears. But in this time of great
rejoicing we pause and say, May God bless the Christmas of our kind
faculty, who so willingly granted us the great privilege of spending
Christmas at home.


                           CHRISTMAS IS OVER.

Although joyful was Christmas, and although charming were its scenes,
the flying moments could not be either lengthened or checked. The great
wheel of time continuing to turn has carried us from the jolly days of
Christmas into the calm days which always follow. If to see friends, if
to be with loved ones, if to eat turkey, if to have a good time, is a
big Christmas, we can say that, if possible, we have had more than our
share. Although we have been greatly refreshed and invigorated for the
work of the ensuing term, yet, so pleasant was our stay at home that we
are led to approve the sentiment of the old darkey, who said:

              “Oh! what a blessin’ it would ‘a’ been,
              If Santa had been born a twin;
              For then we’d ‘a’ had two Chrismusses a year,
              And prob’bly one would ‘a’ settled here.”

But, recognizing the fact that pleasure is always sweetest when it
follows duty well performed, we readily loose our moorings, and with
purer motives, with nobler aims, set sail for our summer vacation.

                                                                   R. R.


                  *       *       *       *       *

Letters from Trinity’s Alumni are invited. If you would like to hear
from a college friend of days long gone by, a few lines in the ARCHIVE
might reach his eye.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             _Editorials._

    J. S. BASSETT, _Hesperian_, } EDITORS.
    G. N. RAPER, _Columbian_,   }


This is an age of steam and electricity, of specialties and of cranks.
There are many unjustly called cranky by those unable to appreciate
enthusiasm and persistent effort, but there is a tendency among too many
men of the present age to neglect everything except that and that alone
which pertains to one narrow subject. This tendency is becoming more
prevalent, especially among American students. A man can make a better
success in a special line of work, provided he has made a deep and broad
foundation upon which to place his desired vocation in life. But how can
a man be a scientific investigator of the wings of bugs without a
knowledge of bugs, or a successful geologist without a knowledge of
Botany and Zoölogy?

                  *       *       *       *       *

Why do boys spend so much money for cigarettes? Some do this to gratify
their appetite for smoking paper, others for the illustrations of art
found within the packages. It is contrary to every idea of decency and
morality to strive to lead boys into the gratification of an appetite,
which is, to say the least, useless, by appealing to one far more
dangerous in its nature, to one which, if aroused, may be the cause of
their eternal ruin.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The greatest need in Southern Colleges is a well-equipped gymnasium.
Every institution of learning ought to have this requisite, and to
compel all its students to use the advantages which a gymnasium affords.
If a boy shines forth by brilliancy of intellect while at College, it is
too often the case that before he has reached the prime of manhood,
before he has done one-tenth of what was possible for him to do, his
constitution becomes a mere wreck, and he soon becomes the victim of
untimely death. Now, while the South is striving with all her might to
establish Colleges for intellectual and industrial training, why should
we neglect physical culture? It is like building a house upon the sand.
When the burdens and cares of active life assail a weakened
constitution, it is compelled to give way, and there is no more
happiness for the unfortunate victim.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The time has at last come when _nations_ begin to realize that “man’s
inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn.” But a few weeks ago
Chickering Hall in New York was densely packed to receive the three
members of the English parliament who have come to America, not as
deputized commissioners but as humanitarians, to arrange with the United
States the necessary preliminaries for establishing an international
court of arbitration. These men are on just as noble a mission as the
missionary who carries christianity to the heathen. Even Gladstone and
Bright, together with many members of both Houses of parliament sanction
this move for “the glorious parliament of man and the federation of the
world.” How much better it is to settle international disputes on common
sense principles than by means which, in the language of Cicero, are
characteristic of beasts! War always implies wrong action on the part of
one nation at least, and in the majority of cases both parties are in
fault.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The announcement of the death of Dr. Burkehead in Fayetteville, Dec. 1,
1887, was a painful surprise to his friends in Trinity as well as in
other places. He died, as he had lived, actively engaged in the work of
the Master.

Lingurn Skidmore Burkehead was born in Davidson county, N.C., May 17th,
1824. At the age of twenty-five, he joined the Methodist Conference at
Oxford, and then began a life of such firm and able devotion to his duty
that he was advanced to all the positions of honor within that body. He
was an able speaker, a kind friend and a genuine Methodist. Trinity
College found in him a staunch supporter, and the Board of Trustees, of
which he was for a long time President, lost in him an energetic member.
He actively exerted himself in securing the present administration, and
now that he is gone we indeed feel that Trinity has lost a friend. He
died about a year later than his wife, and has left three daughters and
four sons, one of whom, L. L. Burkehead, is a member of the Junior
class. To all of these THE ARCHIVE extends its heartfelt sympathy.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Just as the ARCHIVE goes to press, we learn that ladies from the
Greensboro Female College have kindly consented to come to Trinity the
latter part of this month and give a concert for the benefit of the new
building fund. The students appreciate this interest in their efforts,
and will manifest their appreciation by giving the ladies a full house.
Such treats are rare and greatly enjoyed. Due notice of the exact date
will be given through the newspapers and through circulars.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               _Reviews._

    G. T. ADAMS, _Hesperian_, } EDITORS.
    D. C. ROPER, _Columbian_. }


AMERICAN STATESMEN: John Quincy Adams. By John F. Morse, Jr., Boston:
  Houghton, Mifflin & Company. 1886, 16 mo. pp. 315.

Of Mr. Morse’s series of Biographies of men conspicuous in the Political
History of the United States, this volume treats of the life of a man
much abused and cruelly misappreciated in his own day, but whom
subsequent generations already begin to honor as one of the greatest
American Statesmen. The author presents this book in three chapters. In
the first of these divisions, the precocious Adams is taken from his
infancy, through the varied scenes of youthful life to the end of his
diplomatic career in Europe. Next, the author graphically traces the
life of Mr. Adams as Secretary of State in the Cabinet of James Monroe
(where he was instrumental in forming the famous “Monroe Doctrine”) on
through his Presidential career, which terminated in 1828. The latter
days of the ex-President were spent in representing the Plymouth (Mass.)
district in the national House of Representatives. The same accuracy of
statement and scholarly vigor that characterize the other editions in
this series are exemplified with emphasis in this work. The diction is
simple and pure, the style is clear and direct, fitting the book for its
high place in the already brilliant series of “American Statesmen.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

OUR COUNTRY: Its Possible Future and Its Present Crisis. By Rev. Josiah
  Strong, D. D. Published by the Baker and Taylor Co., 9 Bond St., New
  York. pp. 229.

No duty devolving upon American citizens is of more importance than the
defence and perpetuation of the principles upon which our government is
based. That perils of no small import are now menacing these principles
is evident to intelligent minds. The most dangerous of these evils it is
the object of this work to point out, and by an accumulation of verified
facts to prove that these perils do really overhang the government and
should be averted. Among the most serious are mentioned Mormanism,
Romanism, Socialism, Immigration and Intemperance. Each of these
subjects is treated in a masterly manner. The author has exercised rare
skill in collating the facts which are corroborated by the testimony of
men whose veracity cannot be doubted. The central idea enforced by this
volume is _crisis_ in the destiny of the United States and, through it,
in the destiny of the world. The author’s argument reaches its climax in
viewing the relation of this country to the world. The present is
considered the “nick of time.” He shows clearly that the evangelization
of the world depends largely upon the progress made in evangelizing this
country. It is a powerful book and should be read carefully by every one
who has an interest in the welfare of our country.

                  *       *       *       *       *

By good fortune, the publisher of the “Series of Brief Grammars of the
Germanic Dialects,” invited Professor Sievers, then of the University of
Jena, now of Tübingen, to prepare the Old English member of the series;
and, by as rare good fortune, Professor Albert S. Cook, of the
University of California, became the translator, or, more properly
speaking, the American editor. The first edition was immediately
received as highest authority on both sides of the ocean, and the second
edition, which enriches the former with the result of recent
investigations, is all that can be expected for the language from the
sources at command. The grammar was written for beginners, but it
presumes an age and an acquaintance with the theory of language not
found in the class of students in our colleges who begin the study of
Old English. It recalls the experience of two American students at the
University of Leipsic, who, when they saw the announcement of “Lectures
for Beginners in Sanskrit” by Professor Windisch, made up their minds to
take the course. Seats were reserved and the first lecture came on. The
Professor dashed into the alphabet, swirled through declension, called a
halt in the verb, and, when he departed, left them in a state of
bewilderment whose uppermost idea was that there must be, away down
below “beginners,” some place where they belonged.

The extent to which comparative philology has thrown syntax into the
shade is exemplified by the fact that one half of the “grammar” is
devoted to _phonology_ and the other half to _inflection_, while syntax
gets not a word. True, it may well be said that many MSS. must yet be
edited before a satisfactory syntax can be written. That, however, does
not affect the proposition above. One hundred years ago, with the same
material, the order would have been almost reversed. It must be this
passion for philology that has drawn the best minds away from
investigations in the syntax of modern English and consigned our
grammars to the care of third-rate men who continue to mangle “English
as she is wrote.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

There is coming a time when all teachers of English Grammar will have to
be versed in the language and its history from the time of Alfred down,
but to confuse pupils by bringing into the grammar Old English words is
worse than useless. In spite of this blot, Prof. Meiklejohn (“The
English Language.” Boston: D. C. Heath & Co., 1887) manages to explain
some things clearly; yet a man who still calls the infinitive a _mood_
is not to be trusted. The author seems to have emulated Mr. G. W.
Tarbox’s “Album of Universal Information,” for he has within the lids of
one book a Grammar, a Rhetoric, a History of the Language, and a History
of the Literature. The machine made to wash clothes, run the
sewing-machine, rock the cradle and spank the baby, failed for reasons
too obvious to need mention.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              _Exchanges._

    M. C. THOMAS, _Hesperian_,   } EDITORS.
    W. A. BARRETT, _Columbian_,  }

The last number of the _Binghamite_ shows decided improvement.

The December number of the _Wake Forest Student_ is the best number of
this excellent magazine that has yet been received. The articles by
contributors are of a high order. The ARCHIVE extends its
congratulations to the _Student’s_ editors upon their success in College
Journalism.

The _Haverfordian_, for December, has arrived. Its contents are
calculated to be of special interest to those who are enamored of
athletics. It has a very sensible editorial on the study of Political
Economy. The magazine does credit to the institution which it
represents.

The receipt of the _Randolph-Macon Monthly_ is acknowledged. It exhibits
literary merit. Fifteen or twenty of its pages are filled with
advertisements, and upon this remunerative source depends, no doubt, in
a large degree the success of the magazine.

The last number of the _Davidson Monthly_ shows considerable signs of
improvement on former numbers. Stick to the “Boycott,” as it is nothing
but fair to those who support the magazine. Every College magazine would
do well to adopt the same plan. The _Monthly_ is getting to be one of
the best among our exchanges.

In the _Roanoke Collegian’s_ latest number is a very pertinent article
relating to Exchange Departments. It deals the “exchange man,” whom it
terms the “mud-slinging politician of the future,” a well-directed blow.
There is a disposition existing in some college journals to point out
the defects of their neighbors and acquaintances, seemingly blind to the
merits of the magazine criticised, and uttering only the venomous
sentiments generated by a fault-finding disposition. There is a happy
medium between a servile, insincere adulation and a withering, malicious
criticism. The magazine that offers critical remarks sincerely, and for
the improvement of the one criticised, has found that medium.

The _Vanderbilt Observer_ is on our table. Its pages are pregnant with
life and original thought. Among other articles, the one entitled “Edgar
Allen Poe” deserves mention. The author proves, by means of
unquestionable authority, that the base slander which has been asserted
against the fame of the author, whose productions have been translated
into more languages than those of any other American writer, and who has
been the most brilliant star in American literature, was wholly
undeserved.

_The Statesman_, a periodical published at Chicago, Ill., and devoted to
the cause of prohibition, and the December number of the _University
Monthly_ have arrived on the eve of going to press.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               _Locals._

    D. C. BRANSON, _Hes._,  } REPORTERS.
    J. C. MONTGOMERY, _C._, }

Examinations are over. “Did you get through?”

Endowment now reaches about $40,000.

On his return from Conference, Dr. M. L. Wood spent a few days with his
friends in Trinity.

Capt. Arthur Frazer, conductor on the Western road, spent Sunday with
relatives in our town.

Rev. A. D. Betts came by to see his son and preached for us the Sunday
before Conference. His friends were glad to see him.

Dr. McCanless is making preparations to build a residence just above
Prof. Gannaway’s.

Rev. V. A. Sharpe, Presiding Elder of this District, will make Trinity
his home this year.

Mrs. James W. Ward, of Greensboro is spending a few days here, visiting
Prof. Carr’s family.

Misses May Carr and Nellie Edwards, who have been attending the
Lexington Female Seminary, are home enjoying the holidays.

Miss Linton and Miss Minnig of Penn., are visiting the President’s
family.

Prof. Armstrong spent several days in Greensboro during the holidays
visiting the family of Dr. T. M. Jones.

Mr. Dred. Peacock and wife of Lexington spent Christmas with us. They
are visiting Prof. Carr’s family.

Rev. Mr. Rush has retired temporarily from itinerant work and will
remain in our little town this year. His daughter, Mrs. Bost of Concord,
is visiting him.

All of the examinations except those of three or four small classes,
were held in the old chapel. It is the general opinion that it is harder
to _cheat_ one’s way through than to make proper preparation and stand
fairly.

Mr. Eshelman, of Lebanon, Pa., is here prospecting with a view to
permanent location. He wishes to embark in the mercantile business. We
hope that he will find it to his interest to cast his lot with us.

Friday night before Christmas, about a dozen boys went over to
Thomasville to the entertainment given by the young ladies of the Female
College. The occasion was one of enjoyment, especially _after_ the
public exercises.

As the old year is passing away, it is pleasant to look back upon a term
so well spent. Both Faculty and students have worked faithfully, and
this co-operation has not failed to produce the desired result—mutual
confidence and affection.

If we may “size up” the morals of a place by the number of preachers it
contains, Trinity can say _Adsum_ when its name is called on the last
day. We have only eleven licensed preachers with us at present.

Most of the boys spent Christmas at home, but a great many have already
returned in order to do some special work before the Spring Term begins.
Several did not intend leaving college, but did so for the purpose of
raising money for the new building.

“Yowzer” went out to see his “best” girl the other night, and about
10:30 o’clock he was found in a newly dug ice-house “making night
hideous” with his unearthly yells. We are not prepared to state who is
responsible for this sad dilemma, but madam rumor hath it that the fair
Dulcinea was implicated in the plot.

On Wednesday evening, Dec. 21st, a small circle of friends met to
witness the marriage of Capt. Jefferson Davis, Class of ’86, now of the
Davis School, La Grange, N.C., to Miss Mamie B., daughter of Prof.
Gannaway. The ceremony was performed at the residence of the bride’s
father, Rev. F. H. Wood officiating.

_First Student_: “Where is the President this morning?”

_Second Student_: “He went to Greensboro last night to attend a meeting
of the Executive Committee.”

_First Student_: “Yonder he comes now.”

_Second Student_: “Well, sir, he can be in more places at one time than
any man I ever saw.”

The average small boy still finds pleasure in bean-shooters, pop-guns,
and sling-shots. It amuses him yet “to perform such tricks before high
heaven as make the angels weep.” Yes, it is even so, and “Cub” is not an
exception to the general rule. A few nights since he decided to try his
skill in throwing by seeing how many window-lights he could break out of
Duke Harris’s store. About the time he had broken two or three, and was
secretly congratulating himself on his grand success, one of the Faculty
fell upon him like a vulture on his prey. The marauder was taken before
the “city fathers” and fined $3.10, to be devoted to the
road-improvement fund. “He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.”

Saturday evening, Dec. 24th, the ever hospitable Mr. Hundley gave a
supper complimentary to Mr. and Mrs. Jeff. Davis. Several friends were
invited to participate in the festivities of this pleasant occasion. The
festal board was loaded with such delicacies as would tempt the appetite
of the most fastidious. The host was running over with good humor, and
the social feature was by no means the least enjoyable part of this
happy time. In the presence of the young couple, there was another whom
we have not yet mentioned. Yes, he was there and did his work. His name
was——Cupid.

Mr. Tom Finch, a member of the Board of Trustees, died at his home near
Trinity, Saturday, Dec. 10th.

Mrs. Martha Robbins, widow of the late Ahi. Robbins, died at her home
Saturday, Dec. 3rd.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               _Alumni._

    E. L. MOFFITT, _Hesperian_, } EDITORS.
    W. H. RHODES, _Columbian_,  }

—E. J. Kennedy, ’75, a successful lawyer at Chesterfield C. H., S.C., is
a member of the legislature.

—B. N. Bodie, ’81, is merchandising in Leesville, S.C. He is also ticket
agent of the R. & D. R. R., and mayor of the town. Mr. Bodie is a firm
friend of Trinity.

—W. A. Allen is a very promising young lawyer in Goldsboro, N.C.

-Y. P. Ormond, ’78, is farming near Hookerton, N.C. He married a
daughter of Rev. J. E. Mann, and is now the head of a family.

—W. P. Bynum, ’83, one of Trinity’s most thorough students, having
practiced law in Charlotte four years with his uncle, Judge Bynum, moved
on the 25th of last October to Greensboro, where, in partnership with
Bartlett Shipp, Esq., he is destined to become one of the first lawyers
in the state.

—D. B. Nicholson, ’75, after graduating, returned to Duplin county, and
taught school a year and a half. Dec. 20th, 1876, he married Miss Katie
Powell, of Sampson county, and spent several years in farming and
teaching. He was admitted to the bar Jan., ’80, and after practising law
in Duplin two years moved to Clinton, where he taught in the Clinton
Collegiate Institute one year. Since then he has devoted himself to law
and journalism—is now one of the editors of the _Weekly Caucasian_,
published in Clinton. During the session of ’81 he represented Duplin
county in the legislature, and last winter served as Reading Clerk in
the State Senate. Mr. Nicholson has five children. Four of them are boys
whom he will some day send to Trinity. THE ARCHIVE sends Christmas
greetings to the _Caucasian_, and takes pleasure in placing it on the
list of exchanges.

—L. J. Best, ’86, completed his course at the Dick and Dillard Law
School, Greensboro, N.C., and is now practicing law in Goldsboro, N.C.

—J. C. Pinnix, ’86, having completed his law course at Greensboro, and
having been admitted to the bar, is now located at Yanceyville, N.C.

—S. M. S. Rolinson is in charge of the Hatteras school. He has enrolled
this year a large number of pupils.

—J. A. Bell, ’86, after teaching a while, began the study of law in
Statesville, N. C., and speaks of going West. How is this for Carolina,
Jim?

—E. S. Gunn, ’84, is taking a theological course at Vanderbilt
University.

—T. N. Ivy, ’79, taught several years in Western North Carolina before
joining the N.C. Methodist Conference. He is now stationed at Lenoir,
Caldwell county.

—S. Leffers says he is still “invigorated by the gentle breezes of the
North Carolina coast.”

Mr. John D. Ezzell, class of ’85, has been principal of the Belle Voir
High School, Sampson County, N.C., since the summer of his graduation.
He was seen at Conference by a representative of the ARCHIVE, and he
reported his school in a flourishing condition.

—Among the most prominent applicants for admission at the recent session
of Conference were Messrs. J. W. Clegg and L. M. Chaffin. The ARCHIVE
wishes them abundant success in the work of the ministry.

—Cyrus P. Frazer, ’77, soon after leaving Trinity, graduated at
Haverford College, Pa. He is now one of the principals of the Archdale
High School. A few years ago he had at the same place one of the most
flourishing high schools in the State, and as he has taken hold of it
again, Archdale is indeed to be congratulated.

—J. L. Tomlinson, ’72, soon after leaving Trinity graduated at Haverford
College, Pa. A few years after this he went to Germany, but soon decided
to return to the old North State. Ever since his return he has been
actively engaged in the educational cause. He has been principal of
Santa Barbara College, California, also of the Wilson Graded School.
While in Wilson, he was fortunate enough to win not only a good
reputation, but also a good wife. He is now and has been for some time,
the Superintendent of the flourishing Winston Graded Schools.

—R. H. Skeen, ’58, for several years successfully conducted a high
school at Mt. Gilead, N.C., and sent boys to Trinity well prepared to
enter high college classes. He is now principal of the Concord Female
Institute, and has one of the most flourishing schools Concord has ever
known.


                             --------------

                          AMONG THE COLLEGES.

                                  ---

Chautauqua University graduated, in 1886, 4,624 students.

Haverford might appropriately be called the “College of Athletics.”

Harvard will this year distribute $66,000 among her needy students.

Roanoke’s Endowment Fund has recently had an addition of $20,000.

Randolph-Macon’s Gymnasium was formally opened December 5th, with much
_eclat_.

Davidson’s students have “boycotted” those merchants who will not
advertise in their periodical.

Several Colleges wish their weekly holiday to be changed from Saturday
to Monday.

The male students of the University of Mississippi have asked the
removal of the female students. The girls are bearing off all the
honors.

Columbia proposes to institute a new grading system, so that those
students who attain a certain high standard shall be exempt from
examinations.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                           _ADVERTISEMENTS._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            TRINITY COLLEGE,

                     TRINITY COLLEGE, N.C., U.S.A.

                                -------


FACULTY.—Separate chairs in History and Political Economy, Latin and
     French, English and German, Greek and Metaphysics, the Natural
     Sciences, Mathematics and Engineering, Business and Pedagogy.

DEPARTMENTS.—_Collegiate_, leading to Degrees of A.B. and Ph.B.

     _Preparatory_, preparing for admission to college.

     _Business_, five months’ training for business life.

     _Post-Graduate_, advanced studies beyond graduation.

     _Pedagogics_, lectures and special work for teachers.

     _Theological_, preparatory training for the Christian Ministry.


EXPENSES.—_Tuition_, $3 to $5 per month.

     _Board_, $8 to $12 per month.

     Tuition should be paid in advance, and books at the time of
     purchase.


SPECIAL LECTURES are given weekly to all who may wish to attend, free of
     extra charge, on topics of interest. The lecture program of
     prominent speakers for the weeks will be announced later.


EXAMINATIONS.—Examinations in course are held twice a year or at the
     completion of any particular subject. Examinations for admission to
     college in 1888 to any of the regular classes will be held in June
     on the day following Commencement, and in September on the day
     before the opening of college. Students are admitted to the
     Preparatory and Business Departments without examination, but to no
     other.


     The requisites for admission to the Freshman class in 1888 are
     Arithmetic, including the Metric System; Algebra to Quadratics; U.
     S. History; English Grammar and Analysis; Geography, Descriptive
     and Physical; Natural Sciences, Physiology and Hygiene; Latin,
     three Books of Cæsar and Latin Grammar, including Prosody.

     An extra year’s work in Latin and Greek will be required for
     admission in 1889 to the classical course only (A. B. degree.)

LOCATION.—In Randolph county. Reached _via_ High Point, N.C., over the
     Piedmont Air Line. Healthfulness and quiet location render it
     peculiarly safe and well adapted to the education of youth and
     young men.

INFORMATION.—Special circulars issued quarterly, and the regular annual
     catalogue will be sent or any desired information given respecting
     the Institution, upon application to

                                          JOHN F. CROWELL, A. B. (Yale),
                                                            _President_.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             Dike Book Co.,

              OPPOSITE NATIONAL BANK,     GREENSBORO, N.C.

                                  FINE

                        =Books= and =Stationery=

                             OF ALL KINDS.

                                  ---

                  _Sets of Books by Standard Authors_,

                      For sale by sets or singly.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Books of great value, including History, Biography, Poetry, Travels,
&c., for young men and students, at low prices.

                       _FULL LINE OF THE POETS._

Latest Publications of Lovell’s Library, Munro’s Library and others.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                           =BROWN & MATTON,=

                               DRUGGISTS

               NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE, HIGH POINT, N.C.

  Invite the students and friends of Trinity College to examine their
                            complete line of


               =Toilet Articles, Perfumery, Stationery,=

      and all articles usually found in a first-class drug store.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                        THE BEST.     THE BEST.

Holmes’ New Readers, Maury’s Geographies, and Holmes’ New History are
recommended by the State Board of Education for exclusive use in the
schools of North Carolina. Best books at lowest prices. Every school
should have them.

                                                    UNIVERSITY PUB. Co.,
                                            19 Murray St.,     NEW YORK.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         _THOMAS, REECE & Co._,

                                 POWER

                        Book _AND_ Job Printers,

                           =GREENSBORO, N.C.=

                                  ---

                      _Printers of “The Archive.”_


------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was silently corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Trinity Archive, Vol. I, No. 3,
January 1888, by Trinity College

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRINITY ARCHIVE, JANUARY 1888 ***

***** This file should be named 63065-0.txt or 63065-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/0/6/63065/

Produced by hekula03, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

